<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I: Patient Perseverance Produces Pugilistic Prodigies</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Patient Perseverance Produces Pugilistic Prodigies</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“Where <em>have</em> I seen that face before?” said a voice. Tony Graham looked up from his bag.</p>
			<p>“Hullo, Allen,” he said, “what the dickens are you up here for?”</p>
			<p>“I was rather thinking of doing a little boxing. If you’ve no objection, of course.”</p>
			<p>“But you ought to be on a bed of sickness, and that sort of thing. I heard you’d crocked yourself.”</p>
			<p>“So I did. Nothing much, though. Trod on myself during a game of fives, and twisted my ankle a bit.”</p>
			<p>“In for the middles, of course?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“So am I.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, so I saw in <i epub:type="se:name.publication">The Sportsman</i>. It says you weigh eleven-three.”</p>
			<p>“Bit more, really, I believe. Shan’t be able to have any lunch, or I shall have to go in for the heavies. What are you?”</p>
			<p>“Just eleven. Well, let’s hope we meet in the final.”</p>
			<p>“Rather,” said Tony.</p>
			<p>It was at Aldershot⁠—to be more exact, in the dressing room of the Queen’s Avenue Gymnasium at Aldershot⁠—that the conversation took place. From east and west, and north and south, from Dan even unto Beersheba, the representatives of the public schools had assembled to box, fence, and perform gymnastic prodigies for fame and silver medals. The room was full of all sorts and sizes of them, heavyweights looking ponderous and muscular, featherweights diminutive but wiry, lightweights, middleweights, fencers, and gymnasts in scores, some wearing the unmistakable air of the veteran, for whom Aldershot has no mysteries, others nervous, and wishing themselves back again at school.</p>
			<p>Tony Graham had chosen a corner near the door. This was his first appearance at Aldershot. <abbr>St.</abbr> Austin’s was his school, and he was by far the best middleweight there. But his doubts as to his ability to hold his own against all-comers were extreme, nor were they lessened by the knowledge that his cousin, Allen Thomson, was to be one of his opponents. Indeed, if he had not been a man of mettle, he might well have thought that with Allen’s advent his chances were at an end.</p>
			<p>Allen was at Rugby. He was the son of a baronet who owned many acres in Wiltshire, and held fixed opinions on the subject of the whole duty of man, who, he held, should be before anything else a sportsman. Both the Thomsons⁠—Allen’s brother Jim was at <abbr>St.</abbr> Austin’s in the same house as Tony⁠—were good at most forms of sport. Jim, however, had never taken to the art of boxing very kindly, but, by way of compensation, Allen had skill enough for two. He was a splendid boxer, quick, neat, scientific. He had been up to Aldershot three times, once as a featherweight and twice as a lightweight, and each time he had returned with the silver medal.</p>
			<p>As for Tony, he was more a fighter than a sparrer. When he paid a visit to his uncle’s house he boxed with Allen daily, and invariably got the worst of it. Allen was too quick for him. But he was clever with his hands. His supply of pluck was inexhaustible, and physically he was as hard as nails.</p>
			<p>“Is your ankle all right again, now?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Pretty well. It wasn’t much of a sprain. Interfered with my training a good bit, though. I ought by rights to be well under eleven stone. You’re all right, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“Not bad. Boxing takes it out of you more than footer or a race. I was in good footer training long before I started to get fit for Aldershot. But I think I ought to get along fairly well. Any idea who’s in against us?”</p>
			<p>“Harrow, Felsted, Wellington. That’s all, I think.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr>St.</abbr> Paul’s?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“Good. Well, I hope your first man mops you up. I’ve a conscientious objection to scrapping with you.”</p>
			<p>Allen laughed. “You’d be all right,” he said, “if you weren’t so beastly slow with your guard. Why don’t you wake up? You hit like blazes.”</p>
			<p>“I think I shall start guarding two seconds before you lead. By the way, don’t have any false delicacy about spoiling my aristocratic features. On the ground of relationship, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Rather not. Let auld acquaintance be forgot. I’m not Thomson for the present. I’m Rugby.”</p>
			<p>“Just so, and I’m <abbr>St.</abbr> Austin’s. Personally, I’m going for the knockout. You won’t feel hurt?”</p>
			<p>This was in the days before the Headmasters’ Conference had abolished the knockout blow, and a boxer might still pay attentions to the point of his opponent’s jaw with an easy conscience.</p>
			<p>“I probably shall if it comes off,” said Allen. “I say, it occurs to me that we shall be weighing-in in a couple of minutes, and I haven’t started to change yet. Good, I’ve not brought evening dress or somebody else’s footer clothes, as usually happens on these festive occasions.”</p>
			<p>He was just pulling on his last boot when a Gymnasium official appeared in the doorway.</p>
			<p>“Will all those who are entering for the boxing get ready for the weighing-in, please?” he said, and a general exodus ensued.</p>
			<p>The weighing-in at the Public Schools’ Boxing Competition is something in the nature of a religious ceremony, but even religious ceremonies come to an end, and after a quarter of an hour or so Tony was weighed in the balance and found correct. He strolled off on a tour of inspection.</p>
			<p>After a time he lighted upon the <abbr>St.</abbr> Austin’s gym instructor, whom he had not seen since they had parted that morning, the one on his way to the dressing room, the other to the refreshment bar for a modest quencher.</p>
			<p>“Well, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Graham?”</p>
			<p>“Hullo, Dawkins. What time does this show start? Do you know when the middleweights come on?”</p>
			<p>“Well, you can’t say for certain. They may keep ’em back a bit or they may make a start with ’em first thing. No, the lightweights are going to start. What number did you draw, sir?”</p>
			<p>“One.”</p>
			<p>“Then you’ll be in the first middleweight pair. That’ll be after these two gentlemen.”</p>
			<p>“These two gentlemen,” the first of the lightweights, were by this time in the middle of a warmish opening round. Tony watched them with interest and envy. “How beastly nippy they are,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Wish I could duck like that,” he added.</p>
			<p>“Well, the ’ole thing there is you ’ave to watch the other man’s eyes. But lightweights is always quicker at the duck than what heavier men are. You get the best boxing in the lightweights, though the feathers spar quicker.”</p>
			<p>Soon afterwards the contest finished, amidst volleys of applause. It had been a spirited battle, and an exceedingly close thing. The umpires disagreed. After a short consultation, the referee gave it as his opinion that on the whole <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">R.</abbr> Cloverdale, of Bedford, had had a shade the worse of the exchanges, and that in consequence <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J.</abbr> Robinson, of <abbr>St.</abbr> Paul’s, was the victor. This was what he meant. What he said was, “Robinson wins,” in a sharp voice, as if somebody were arguing about it. The pair then shook hands and retired.</p>
			<p>“First bout, middleweights,” shrilled the <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:initialism">M.C.</abbr> “<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">W. P.</abbr> Ross (Wellington) and <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. C. R.</abbr> Graham (<abbr>St.</abbr> Austin’s).”</p>
			<p>Tony and his opponent retired for a moment to the changing room, and then made their way amidst applause on to the raised stage on which the ring was pitched. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">W. P.</abbr> Ross proceeded to the farther corner of the ring, where he sat down and was vigorously massaged by his two seconds. Tony took the opposite corner and submitted himself to the same process. It is a very cheering thing at any time to have one’s arms and legs kneaded like bread, and it is especially pleasant if one is at all nervous. It sends a glow through the entire frame. Like somebody’s something it is both grateful and comforting.</p>
			<p>Tony’s seconds were curious specimens of humanity. One was a gigantic soldier, very gruff and taciturn, and with decided leanings towards pessimism. The other was also a soldier. He was in every way his colleague’s opposite. He was half his size, had red hair, and was bubbling over with conversation. The other could not interfere with his hair or his size, but he could with his conversation, and whenever he attempted a remark, he was promptly silenced, much to his disgust.</p>
			<p>“Plenty o’ moosle ’ere, Fred,” he began, as he rubbed Tony’s left arm.</p>
			<p>“Moosle ain’t everything,” said the other, gloomily, and there was silence again.</p>
			<p>“Are you ready? Seconds away,” said the referee.</p>
			<p>“Time!”</p>
			<p>The two stood up to one another.</p>
			<p>The Wellington representative was a plucky boxer, but he was not in the same class as Tony. After a few exchanges, the latter got to work, and after that there was only one man in the ring. In the middle of the second round the referee stopped the fight, and gave it to Tony, who came away as fresh as he had started, and a great deal happier and more confident.</p>
			<p>“Did us proud, Fred,” began the garrulous man.</p>
			<p>“Yes, but that ’un ain’t nothing. You wait till he meets young Thomson. I’ve seen ’im box ’ere three years, and never bin beat yet. Three bloomin’ years. Yus.”</p>
			<p>This might have depressed anybody else, but as Tony already knew all there was to be known about Allen’s skill with the gloves, it had no effect upon him.</p>
			<p>A sanguinary heavyweight encounter was followed by the first bout of the feathers and the second of the lightweights, and then it was Allen’s turn to fight the Harrow representative.</p>
			<p>It was not a very exciting bout. Allen took things very easily. He knew his training was by no means all it should have been, and it was not his game to take it out of himself with any firework business in the trial heats. He would reserve that for the final. So he sparred three gentle rounds with the Harrow sportsman, just doing sufficient to keep the lead and obtain the verdict after the last round. He finished without having turned a hair. He had only received one really hard blow, and that had done no damage. After this came a long series of fights. The heavyweights shed their blood in gallons for name and fame. The featherweights gave excellent exhibitions of science, and the lightweight pairs were fought off until there remained only the final to be decided, Robinson, of <abbr>St.</abbr> Paul’s, against a Charterhouse boxer.</p>
			<p>In the middleweights there were three competitors still in the running, Allen, Tony, and a Felsted man. They drew lots, and the bye fell to Tony, who put up an uninteresting three rounds with one of the soldiers, neither fatiguing himself very much. Henderson, of Felsted, proved a much tougher nut to crack than Allen’s first opponent. He was a rushing boxer, and in the first round had, if anything, the best of it. In the last two, however, Allen gradually forged ahead, gaining many points by his perfect style alone. He was declared the winner, but he felt much more tired than he had done after his first fight.</p>
			<p>By the time he was required again, however, he had had plenty of breathing space. The final of the lightweights had been decided, and Robinson, of <abbr>St.</abbr> Paul’s, after the custom of Paulines, had set the crown upon his afternoon’s work by fighting the Carthusian to a standstill in the first round. There only remained now the finals of the heavies and middles.</p>
			<p>It was decided to take the latter first.</p>
			<p>Tony had his former seconds, and Dawkins had come to his corner to see him through the ordeal.</p>
			<p>“The ’ole thing ’ere,” he kept repeating, “is to keep goin’ ’ard all the time and wear ’im out. He’s too quick for you to try any sparrin’ with.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Tony.</p>
			<p>“The ’ole thing,” continued the expert, “is to feint with your left and ’it with your right.” This was excellent in theory, no doubt, but Tony felt that when he came to put it into practice Allen might have other schemes on hand and bring them off first.</p>
			<p>“Are you ready? Seconds out of the ring.⁠ ⁠… Time!”</p>
			<p>“Go in, sir, ’ard,” whispered the red-haired man as Tony rose from his place.</p>
			<p>Allen came up looking pleased with matters in general. He gave Tony a cousinly grin as they shook hands. Tony did not respond. He was feeling serious, and wondering if he could bring off his knockout before the three rounds were over. He had his doubts.</p>
			<p>The fight opened slowly. Both were cautious, for each knew the other’s powers. Suddenly, just as Tony was thinking of leading, Allen came in like a flash. A straight left between the eyes, a right on the side of the head, and a second left on the exact tip of the nose, and he was out again, leaving Tony with a helpless feeling of impotence and disgust.</p>
			<p>Then followed more sparring. Tony could never get in exactly the right position for a rush. Allen circled round him with an occasional feint. Then he hit out with the left. Tony ducked. Again he hit, and again Tony ducked, but this time the left stopped halfway, and his right caught Tony on the cheek just as he swayed to one side. It staggered him, and before he could recover himself, in darted Allen again with another trio of blows, ducked a belated left counter, got in two stinging hits on the ribs, and finished with a left drive which took Tony clean off his feet and deposited him on the floor beside the ropes.</p>
			<p>“Silence, <em>please</em>,” said the referee, as a burst of applause greeted this feat.</p>
			<p>Tony was up again in a moment. He began to feel savage. He had expected something like this, but that gave him no consolation. He made up his mind that he really would rush this time, but just as he was coming in, Allen came in instead. It seemed to Tony for the next half-minute that his cousin’s fists were never out of his face. He looked on the world through a brown haze of boxing glove. Occasionally his hand met something solid which he took to be Allen, but this was seldom, and, whenever it happened, it only seemed to bring him back again like a boomerang. Just at the most exciting point, “Time” was called.</p>
			<p>The pessimist shook his head gloomily as he sponged Tony’s face.</p>
			<p>“You must lead if you want to ’it ’im,” said the garrulous man. “You’re too slow. Go in at ’im, sir, wiv both ’ands, an’ you’ll be all right. Won’t ’e, Fred?”</p>
			<p>“I said ’ow it ’ud be,” was the only reply Fred would vouchsafe.</p>
			<p>Tony was half afraid the referee would give the fight against him without another round, but to his joy “Time” was duly called. He came up to the scratch as game as ever, though his head was singing. He meant to go in for all he was worth this round.</p>
			<p>And go in he did. Allen had managed, in performing a complicated manoeuvre, to place himself in a corner, and Tony rushed. He was sent out again with a flush hit on the face. He rushed again, and again met Allen’s left. Then he got past, and in the confined space had it all his own way. Science did not tell here. Strength was the thing that scored, hard half-arm smashes, left and right, at face and body, and the guard could look after itself.</p>
			<p>Allen uppercut him twice, but after that he was nowhere. Tony went in with both hands. There was a prolonged rally, and it was not until “Time” had been called that Allen was able to extricate himself. Tony’s blows had been mostly body blows, and very warm ones at that.</p>
			<p>“That’s right, sir,” was the comment of the redheaded second. “Keep ’em both goin’ hard, and you’ll win yet. You ’ad ’im proper then. ’Adn’t ’e, Fred?”</p>
			<p>And even the pessimist was obliged to admit that Tony could fight, even if he was not quick with his guard.</p>
			<p>Allen took the ring slowly. His want of training had begun to tell on him, and some of Tony’s blows had landed in very tender spots. He knew that he could win if his wind held out, but he had misgivings. The gloves seemed to weigh down his hands. Tony opened the ball with a tremendous rush. Allen stopped him neatly. There was an interval while the two sparred for an opening. Then Allen feinted and dashed in. Tony did not hit him once. It was the first round over again. Left right, left right, and, finally, as had happened before, a tremendously hot shot which sent him under the ropes. He got up, and again Allen darted in. Tony met him with a straight left. A rapid exchange of blows, and the end came. Allen lashed out with his left. Tony ducked sharply, and brought his right across with every ounce of his weight behind it, fairly on to the point of the jaw. The right cross-counter is distinctly one of those things which it is more blessed to give than to receive. Allen collapsed.</p>
			<p>“… nine⁠ ⁠… ten.”</p>
			<p>The timekeeper closed his watch.</p>
			<p>“Graham wins,” said the referee, “look after that man there.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
